# Model Risk Management - Validation and Annual Model Review Process

Validation, and Annual Model Review. These validation types are generally referred to as "MRM reviews" and the associated documentation as "Review Reports."

## 4.1. Process

### 4.1.1. Sample Selection and Assignment

At the beginning of each month (by the 5th), the Quality Assurance Manager will retrieve the list of completed Model Reviews for the previous month from the model inventory system. The Quality Assurance Manager will determine the sample of Model Reviews requiring QARs following Model Validation Procedure (PRO-2024-10-3163979) sample selection guidelines. The Quality Assurance Manager will define the expected QAR timeline and communicate timelines and QAR assignments to the Quality Assurance Reviewers. The QAR assignment should align with the Quality Assurance Reviewer's experience and seniority, where possible. The QAR schedule will be documented and stored in an appropriate location.

The following timelines, including manager or peer review, are generally recommended:

| Model Risk Tier | Full Scope Validation/Revalidation | Targeted-Scope Validation | Annual Model Review |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------|
| High | 3 weeks (15 business days) | 2 weeks (10 business days) | 1 week (5 business days) |
| Medium | 2 weeks (10 business days) | 1 week (5 business days) | 3 business days |
| Low | 1 week (5 business days) | 3 business days | 3 business days |
| De Minimus | 1 week (5 business days) | 3 business days | 3 business days |
| SDC | 1 week (5 business days) | 3 business days | 3 business days |

If the Quality Assurance Manager selects a timeline different from the table above, the rationale should be documented in the QAR assignment process and communicated to the Quality Assurance Reviewer.

For model versions with a Model Management Status marked by LV as "Review not Required," the Quality Assurance Manager will ensure a perfunctory quarterly review is performed on a selected sample to confirm the choice of approval without review was appropriate.

### 4.1.2. Resource Planning

On a quarterly basis, MRM Officers evaluate the upcoming model validation pipeline and determine the validation schedule. The Quality Assurance Manager should review the outcomes and schedule resources to achieve the target sampling goals. The Quality Assurance Manager should also discuss specific cases with the MRM Officers to determine if a non-random sampled QAR will be required for any validations, and document the reason.

The schedule of QAR activities should be shared with the Quality Assurance Manager's supervisor. If the number of reviews cannot be completed in the same month as the initial QAR assignment due to competing priorities or other resource constraints, the Quality Assurance Manager has delegated authority to adjust sample of QARs for the month so long as the overall year-end QAR completion rate conforms with the Model Validation Procedure target sample requirements. If the sample of QARs for the month cannot be adjusted due to model risk concerns, then the Quality Assurance Manager should communicate anticipation of extended timelines to the MRM Officers prior to the quarterly meetings.

### 4.1.3. Performing the Quality Assurance Review

The QAR Process should follow these general steps:

1. Quality Assurance Manager assigns the QAR to a Quality Assurance Reviewer.

2. The Quality Assurance Reviewer collects relevant documentation for the Validation Review from the model inventory system and other sources. If the sources require specific access (e.g., Highly Restricted repositories), the Quality Assurance Reviewer will work with the Quality Assurance Manager to determine necessity and prioritization of access requests.

3. The Quality Assurance Reviewer will perform the QAR following the steps outlined in this Job Aid.

4. The Quality Assurance Reviewer will complete the QAR Template.

5. The draft QAR Template will be reviewed with the Quality Assurance Manager for any edits at least two days prior to the end of the review timeline. For longer reviews, a one-week lead time is recommended.

6. The Quality Assurance Reviewer will schedule a meeting with the LV to discuss any findings. LV will be provided the opportunity to respond to Quality Assurance Reviewer in writing within two (2) business days following the meeting.

7. The Quality Assurance Reviewer will finalize the QAR Template and upload the review to the model inventory system.

### 4.1.4 Quality Assurance Review Summary Meetings

On a quarterly basis, the Quality Assurance Manager will meet with MRM Officers to examine QAR outcomes. The Quality Assurance Manager will identify trends, challenges, and opportunities for improvement, including observations of non-compliance with the MMLC Framework. As necessary, Issues may be identified in conformance with the Guidelines to MRM Quarterly Organizational Issue Reviews section 2.3.

Evidence of quarterly meetings will be summarized in a meeting deck and any agreed-upon follow-up items, and negative trends will be escalated to the CMRMO with corresponding notification to relevant and MRM stakeholders, as appropriate.

### 4.1.5. Conflict Resolution

Disputes and disagreements may occur throughout the Quality Assurance Review process. If there is a dispute or disagreement between the Quality Assurance Reviewer and an LV, the Quality Assurance Manager will have the final decision. If the dispute or disagreement occurs between a Validation Manager and the Quality Assurance Manager, the Quality Assurance Manager's supervisor will have the final decision.

## 4.2. Validation Review and Testing

The Quality Assurance Reviewer should evaluate the review and testing documented by the LV in the Review Report. Generally, the QAR should evaluate whether the review and testing activities were commensurate with the Model Type, Risk Tier, triggering events, and Review Type. For each area tested, the Review Report should include brief summaries of the Model Owner's submitted evidence; a description of the LV's review of the submitted evidence; details of any tests performed by the LV or justification for not performing testing; and LV's conclusion of the review and testing.

The Quality Assurance Reviewer should also consider the following:

• Writing should be clear and concise – context is adequately documented for sufficient standalone interpretation.

• Language is direct and conclusive, avoiding potential points of confusion for the reader.

• Writing avoids use of colloquialisms.

• Assessments are fair and unbiased.

• References are appropriately cited and correctly identified.

• Review Reports avoid excessive use of copy/paste from Model Owner's submission, especially without attribution or citation.

• Review Reports avoid summarization of facts without analysis.

• All analyses are supported by evidence, and evidence is included (summarized) in Review Report documentation without contradicting validator's conclusion.

• Review and Testing demonstrates effective challenge and appropriately identifies weaknesses in model methodology, data, implementation, monitoring, or development and maintenance processes and controls. Consideration is given for any special circumstances affecting the model while aligning with MRM's Risk Appetite and principles.

• Test results and details not described in full within Review Report are documented in supplemental evidence either within MUSE or in shared drive locations clearly identified within Review Report with appropriate access controls.

Additional points of inquiry are noted below.

### 4.2.1. Template Question 1 - Does the Review Report include all of the minimum sections and procedures, as applicable by model type and risk tier, identified in the report template?

**Considerations for Full Scope Validations:**

• Review the Risk Tier Template in the Model Inventory System.

    ○ Did the LV evidence effective review and challenge of the Model Risk Tier prior to MRM Final Risk Tier Determination?
    
    ○ If the subject of the Review is a new Model Version, were the changes to the Model or Usage(s) adequately captured in the updated Risk Tier Template and consistent with the MRM Final Risk Tier Determination?
    
    ○ Does the stated evidence support the MRM Final Risk Tier Determination?

• Was the Review Report Template used by the LV consistent with the Template recommended for the Model's Risk Tier? If not, was rationale documented for using an alternative Template?

• Are all the sections required per the Model's Risk Tier included in the Review Report?
